**Choosie**

Live URL: https://choosie.us  
Server Repository: https://github.com/nickBarak/Choosie-Server

This application offers a truly 'app-like' experience and was designed with the concept of a mobile app in mind. Characteristic of this ambition are its smooth transitions, visually soft components and simplistic interface. The navigation system is designed such that a user can easily transition to almost any part of the application from every part of the application - excluding a few auxillary routes, which have access to the home page alone.

The app opens to a search bar and three buttons labeled 'My List,' 'Start' and 'Popular.' Clicking the 'Start' button will initiate a questionnaire which will be used to ultimately offer a guided recommendation of movies. The first and second phases of the questionnaire ask about genres, and the four shown in the first phase will always be the most commonly selected genres for a user if he or she is logged in. A navigation bar will also be visible with options to return home or visit the 'My List' and 'Popular' pages. After answering all of the questions, a list of recommended movies will be displayed with pagination options above and below as well as a star-rating component for feedback. Clicking on the image or text of one of the results will open a movie page where its information can be observed. A 'Back' option will appear in the navigation bar which will return the user to the result list and restore the recommended movies and page value at the time of visiting the movie page.

Entering a value into the home page search bar will open a search page showing the value entered, a star-rating component, another search bar and a list of 10 or less movies matching the search. The word 'Next' will appear both above and below this list if the search yields more than 10 results, and a click on a 'Next' button will display the next set and reveal an option to view the previous one. Clicking on the image or text of one of the search result items will navigate to the corresponding movie page with a 'Back' button added to the navigation bar, which will restore the search value and result set.

Below the title of the movie on a movie page sits a button reading either 'Sign in to save this movie' or 'Save to My List' depending on the status of the user. If not signed in, clicking this button will redirect the user to the registration page. Otherwise, the movie will be added to the user's collection of saved movies which can be observed from the 'My List' page. The button will then read 'Unsave movie,' and clicking it will remove the movie from the user's collection.

At the top left of the home page is a button to log in. Clicking this will open input boxes for entering credentials as well as an option to sign up. Clicking the 'Sign up' button will take the user to a register page. A user can sign in from this page as well, or and be prompted to enter further information afterwords. When signed in, the 'Log in' button on the home page is replaced with a greeting as well as buttons to log out or view the user's profile. The profile page includes a summary of the user's settings as well options to change them. At the bottom left of the home page are the words 'What is Choosie?.' This is a link to the help page where information about the application is provided.

Selecting the 'My List' option from the home screen or navigation bar will, if signed in, reveal all of the user's currently saved movies. The movies displayed can be filtered by using the 'Filter by:' tool above the list of movies. Additional filters can be applied by clicking the '+' button after configuring a filter, and the 'Reset' button will restore the original selection of movies. Hovering over a movie's image will - if the user's settings allow - display a brief description, and clicking the 'Unsave' button beneath it will remove it from the user's currently saved movies as well as any bins which contain it. Unsaved movies can still be viewed by clicking 'Save History' on the 'My List' page, however, unless the user opts to clear his or her history in the profile page.

Clicking the 'Your Bins' button will open a dropdown list of all bins the user has created, as well as a '+' icon which will open an input box when clicked. A new bin can be created by entering a name here or via the bin manager which can be opened by selecting the 'Manage Bins' button below. The bin manager has options for creating, updating, emptying and deleting bins. The update field displays a dropdown list of all user bins which do not contain all currently saved movies when the 'Add' radio button is selected, and all user bins which contain at least one movie when the 'Remove' radio button is selected. Clicking the 'Add To' or 'Remove From' button to the right will replace the dropdown options with a list of movies that are appropriate for the action being performed on the bin. The delete/empty field follows a similar process.

On the 'Popular' page, four categories of popular movies can be viewed: 'Trending,' 'Recent Releases,' 'Most Saved This Month' and 'Most Saved All Time.' While movies in the 'Trending' section are arbitrarily selected and 'Recent Releases' is ordered by release date, the latter two categories are community-fueled and represent those movies which are most popular - specifically, most saved to 'My List' - among all users of the application. Each category can be navigated in a page-like manner using the 'Next' and 'Previous' buttons, and visiting a movie page from the 'Popular' page will add a 'Back' button to the navigation bar which will return to the 'Popular' page and restore the category and page values.
